

With the 13th National Assembly elections ahead, the electoral momentum of candidates from different parties in the six parliamentary seats in Sirajganj is steadily gaining momentum. After the announcement of the schedule, election-centered discussions and debates are also taking place among the general public. In some seats, the campaign of the rival candidates prevails, in some places the party clashes. Somewhere there are discussions about the change of leaders. The electoral heat is increasing day by day as candidates nominated by different parties take to the field in the six seats in the district. There has been some party discontent in the two seats over the BNP's nomination. Former MP Manzoor Kader is in talks to become the NCP candidate after not receiving the BNP nomination for the Sirajganj-5 seat. However, the candidates nominated by the BNP have taken to the field to campaign with activists and supporters. Islamic leaders and activists have also taken to the field with party candidates in every seat. The candidates of the two parties are spending a busy time in field meetings, marches, road meetings and public relations. Posters and banners have been hung all over the city from the village. The new political party, the National Citizens' Party (NCP), has so far fielded candidates for four seats in the district. Potential candidates of the Islamic Movement Bangladesh, the Communist Party of Bangladesh (CPB), the Socialist Party of Bangladesh (Bassad) are also campaigning in various seats. In the end, local voters are looking at who can reflect organizational strength and public support on the ballot box.
At the time of the announcement of the nominations in the first phase, the BNP left the seat vacant. In a second phase, the party nominated former president of the Kazipur Upzilla BNP, Selim Reza, on December 4. The nominees for the BNP were District BNP member vocalist Rumana Morshed Konkchappa and District BNP Vice President Nazmul Hasan Talukdar. Leaders and activists said there was some dissatisfaction among the local BNP over the nomination. However, BNP candidate Salim Reza said in the first light that the central BNP had nominated him for the seat after evaluating the grassroots leaders and workers. He wants to overcome all the conflicts and bring everyone with him and give the seat to the team. In this seat, Aamir Shahinur Alam is the party's candidate in Jamaat district. He began meetings after the nomination was confirmed. Abu Zafar received the nomination of the Islamic Movement for the seat. The CPB's Abdul Baki and the Abu Sama government of Basd are also campaigning.
Iqbal Hasan Mahmoud Tuku, a member of the BNP Standing Committee, has become the party's candidate for the Sirajganj — 2 seat. The Jamaat's nomination was received by the party's district secretary, Muhammad Zahidul Islam. Candidates from various parties, including BNP, Jamaat, have already started talking about activists and supporters on the field. BNP candidate Iqbal Hasan Mahmoud said, “After a long time, the people of the country are eagerly waiting to exercise their franchise. We are making recommendations to the people on what to do with the people if we are elected. ' Jamaat candidate Mohammad Jahidul Islam said at First Light: 'We are going to people's door-to-door in the field and voting. I meet them in different ways. By doing so, I'm extremely optimistic about people's love. ' The Islamic movement has nominated Md. To Mahabbullah. In addition, Anwar Hossain Reza, a member of the party's central committee from the CPB, and Abdullah Al Mamun of Basd are campaigning to be candidates.
District BNP Information & Research
Editor Aynul Hawk received a party nomination here. BNP leader Abdul Mannan Talukdar was a member of parliament in 1991, 1996 and 2001. After his death, his son Rahid Mannan Lellin was this time the BNP nominee. A part of the party remains inactive on the electoral field if he is not nominated. AANUL HAWK SAID AT FIRST LIGHT, 'I HAVE ALREADY TAKEN TO THE POLLING FIELD WITH MY PARTY LEADERS-STAFF. People have not been able to exercise their franchise for a long time. If fair and fair elections are held this time, voters with joy like Eid Day will spontaneously win me by huge votes. That's my belief. ' The party nominated Mohammad Abdus Samad, a member of the Islamic Central Labour Council here in Jama'a. The NCP has been nominated by the team's joint chief coordinator Dilshana Parul. In the seat, the candidate of the Islamic movement, Gazi Ainul Haq. In addition, Mostafa Nurul Amin, general editor of the CPB's district committee, and Palash Kumar Ghosh of Basd are also on the field.
Former MP M Akbar Ali has been nominated as the BNP candidate for the seat. However, after announcing his candidacy for the seat, supporters of former Ullapara Upzilla BNP member Azad Hossain marched and manhandled demanding a change in the nomination. 'Mr Akbar Ali has not been seen on the field in the last 16 years, 'Azad Hossain said in the first light. That's why there was no case in his name. At that time, I led BNP politics from the field. I am a defendant in 70 cases. I went to jail 26 times. Why would the team underestimate me now? ' M Akbar Ali said, “I have been nominated to properly assess the expectations of the people of the grasslands. People will win me by a huge vote, Insha Allah. ' Here, Jamaat's central assistant secretary general, Rafikul Islam Khan, has been given the party's nomination. Shahzahan Ali, Amir Professor of Ullapara Upzilla Jamaat, said people were ready to vote for Rafikul Islam Khan. Wherever he goes, people surround him. The NCP's nominee for the seat was the party's central senior joint member Duti Aranya Chowdhury. 'I am keeping in constant contact with people in my area (Ullapara), 'he said. ABDUL HAKIM, THE PARTY'S UPZILLA PRESIDENT, IS RUNNING FROM THE BANGLADESH COMMUNIST PARTY.
Former MP Manzur Kader has left the BNP and is in talks for the Sirajganj-5 seat as the NCP candidate. He was hoping for the BNP nomination for the seat. However, the BNP has nominated Rajshahi divisional co-organisational editor Amirul Islam Khan Alim. Speaking to people close to Manzoor Kader, Manzoor Kader recently resigned as a member of the BNP's National Executive Committee and as a primary member of the team, citing personal reasons. He then joined the NCP and was nominated for the seat. After receiving the NCP nomination, Manzur Kader wrote in a Facebook post, “Believing in this advancement and the idea of new politics in Bangladesh and in the struggle to establish people's rights, as a former student of Dhaka University, I am unable to involve myself as a former student of Dhaka University. With regard to the issue, I joined the National Citizens Party (NCP) and got nominated in the national parliament elections in the constituency of Sirajganj-5 (Belkuchi-Chauhali). ' He added, “I believe that NCP can bring forward a new generation of leadership and institutionalize democracy in Bangladesh and shape the future of the country.
To make amends. '
BNP candidate Amirul Islam Khan Alim is campaigning in the area with leaders and activists. “Insha Allah is responding much more than I expected from the people of the area,” he said. Jamaat candidate Ali Alam is in the seat. He is the Naive Amir of the District Jamaat. “We have already completed 100 per cent of election preparations, including campaigning on the ground,” he said. Now people are just waiting for the vote. Insha Allah we are extremely optimistic in this seat. ' In addition, Islamic Movement candidate Sheikh Mohammed Nurun Nabi and potential candidate for the People's Rights Council, Sohrawardi Hossain, are also campaigning. Mothoor Rahman could run for the Bangladesh Communist Party.
THE PARTY HAS NOMINATED DISTRICT BNP ADVISER MA MUHIT FOR THE SEAT. He is the son of former Deputy Prime Minister Prayat M. A. Motin. “We want to forget all hatred and work for people together,” said M.A. Muhit. As a candidate in the next election, I am getting a huge response from the people. The grassroots people are with us. ' Jamaat candidate Mizanur Rahman is in the seat. He is the Amir of Shahzadpur Upzilla Jamaat. The NCP has been nominated by the party's central joint member secretary SM Saif Mustafiz. In addition, Mesbah Uddin, an adviser to the district committee of the Islamic Movement, and Anwar Hossain, the leader of the Bassad, are candidates.

In Lakshmipur, a BNP leader named Belal Hossain was accused of setting fire to the house of a BNP leader by locking doors and pouring petrol. During this time, a seven-year-old girl of the BNP leader died in a house fire. In addition, the BNP leader and two of his other daughters were caught in the fire. The incident took place in the Sutargopta area of Charmansa village of Bhavaniganj Union in Sadar Upzela on Friday night yesterday. Belal Hossain is a co-organisational editor of Bhavaniganj Union BNP in Lakshmipur and a fertiliser and pesticide trader at Sutargopta market.
The name of the child who died in the fire was Ayesha Akhtar. The three accused were Belal Hossain (50) and his two daughters, Veethi Akhtar (17) and Smriti Akhtar (14). Among them, Beethi Akhtar and Smriti Akhtar have been sent to the National Institute of Burn and Plastic Surgery for treatment. Belal is being treated at the headquarters hospital. The fire also burned Belal Hossain's house to ashes. The family and local residents said Belal's family had all fallen asleep after dinner. At around 2pm, the thieves locked the door and set the house on fire. Gasoline was poured and set on fire, causing it to quickly spread around.
'The terrorists poured petrol and set fire, 'said Hachibur Rahman, joint convener of the district BNP. The door was previously locked. Terrorists have done this purposefully. We demand the swift arrest of those involved in the incident. ' Ranjit Kumar Das, station officer of Lakshmipur Fire Service, said a child was rescued from the scene after receiving the news. In addition, three people were rescued and taken to hospital in a critical condition. The condition of both of them is suspicious. You can see how the fire started.
The Acting Officer (OC) of Lakshmipur Sadar Model Police, Md. WAHID PARVEZ SAID A SLEEPING BABY BURNED TO DEATH IN THE FIRE. It remains to be seen whether someone deliberately set fire to the house.

BNP Acting Chairman Tarek Rahman said he expects to see free and impartial national elections under the interim government. He said the government must respect the people's fair demands. There is no room for arrogance or anger on the part of the government here. Tarek Rahman spoke at the 18th founding anniversary meeting of the National People's Party (NPP) in Dhaka on Sunday, joining virtually from London at the Diplomatic Engineers Institution Milnayata. Calling for constructive criticism of the government, Tariq Rahman said citizens should continue to issue constructive criticism of the government, whether it is a government elected by direct popular vote, an interim government or a caretaker government. The people of the country are not at the mercy of the government. He said the BNP delegation met with Chief Adviser Professor Muhammad Yunus on Saturday. At the meeting, the chief adviser was reiterated by the BNP about the national elections scheduled for next December.
Noting the stagnation in domestic and foreign investment due to the lack of a stable democratic government in the country, the acting chairman of BNP said that there is a kind of instability among people of different classes and professions due to an uncertain political and economic situation. That is why people of different classes and professions are coming down the highway with different demands every day. But sadly, though true, there is no one to listen to their claims at the moment. Tarek Rahman believes that the interim government has created a stalemate in revenue collection by pushing NBR reforms just before the budget passes. He said it was not a good thing for the economy. It is everyone's belief that an accountable democratic government can play the most effective role in dealing with such a situation.
Referring to an ongoing process of reform, Tarek Rahman said, “There is no such thing as little or too much reform. Reform is a continuous process at the behest of the state and politics. But practical reform is more important than fundamental reform.” Noting that the interim government is not accountable, Tarek Rahman said there may not be a crisis of moral and political legitimacy of the interim government. However, this government is not accountable to the people. Therefore, for moral reasons, the government's precise plans need to be clear to the public. In the end, no plan will be effective or sustainable by leaving people in the dark or political parties in limbo.

BNP will hire trains on seven routes to bring leaders and supporters from all over the country to Dhaka on the occasion of the return of the acting chairman of the BNP, Tariq Rahman. The party sent a letter to the Ministry of Railways on Thursday seeking permission to reserve those seven special trains with extra compartments on the night of December 24. The letter was given by Ruhul Kabir Rizvi, senior joint general secretary of BNP, stating that certain rents would be paid as per government policies.
BNP's letter referred to trains on seven routes. They are Cox's Bazar-Dhaka, Sylet-Dhaka, Jamalpur-Mymensingh-Dhaka, Tangail-Dhaka, ChapainBabganj-Rajshahi-Dhaka, Panchgar-Nilfamari-Parbatipur-Dhaka and Kuri Gram-Rangpur-Dhaka route. The letter said BNP acting chairman Tarek Rahman will return to Dhaka from the UK on December 25. A large number of students from all over the country will arrive in Dhaka to welcome him. To facilitate their arrival, BNP intends to reserve trains for various routes on the day of December 24. The fixed rent will be paid according to government policy.
In a letter to the Secretary of the Ministry of Railways, BNP specifically requested the Ministry of Railways to reserve one special train with extra compartments on each route.

In Narayanganj-5 (city-port) seat, BNP-nominated candidate Mohammad Masudzaman has again announced his participation in the elections due to the 'security issue'. He made the decision on Friday afternoon in the face of pressure from party leaders, activists and supporters. On Friday afternoon, leaders and supporters marched from the Khanpur area of the city and surrounded his organization model group in the Talla area. They also shouted slogans demanding that he return to the election process. He later left the office and made the announcement. Leaders and workers from district and metropolitan BNP and allied organizations were present.
In an exchange meeting with journalists at the Narayanganj Press Club on December 16, Masuduzman announced his withdrawal from the upcoming elections 'due to security concerns and family pressure'. His announcement sparked outrage among party leaders and staff. They had been meeting for several days to bring him back. In a speech to the leaders and workers on Friday, Masuduzman said, “Mourn for us today. One of our brothers, Osman Hadi, has died. May Allah make him a martyr.” Recalling Osman Hadid's political role, he said that while many political parties were walking in the opposite direction of elections, Hadi led young people to the polls and educated the nation through life.
Commenting on his previous decision, Masuduzman said, “By announcing no elections on December 16, I have harmed my party, the acting chairman of the party, Tariq Rahman, and the leaders of the standing committee. For this I apologize unconditionally. The team is bigger than the individual, the country is bigger than the team. We are before me, the country before us, the people before power, Bangladesh before everyone else. From this stage today, I am announcing — I agree with the decisions taken by the acting chairman of the party, Tariq Rahman and the BNP. I have been nominated by BNP and will participate in the elections Insha Allah. ' He added: “From now on, you are my family, you are my safety. There are no more security concerns. I'll bet on my life.”

BNP appoints election agents, polling agents and a social media manager in each seat. Training activities will be started soon for them. The training will be completed by mid-January. To this end, a list is being collected from all the candidates for the rice sheesh symbol. Candidates are submitting details to the centre, including the name and WhatsApp number of an election agent, two polling agents and a social media manager. It is reported that the emphasis will be on promoting party programs on the electoral field, as well as creating a counter-boycott of opposing candidates. A social media manager will be trained in each seat.
According to the announced schedule, the election campaign will begin on January 22. Before that, the BNP wants to complete the training of its party election workers. According to party sources, Democracy International (DI), an international organisation involved in participation and training in the global election process, has recently been given a list of more than half a hundred people for electoral training by the BNP. Everyone on the list will be trained in several steps. Training has already been carried out in two phases. The event will end in mid-January. Trained individuals will train seat-based polling agents. In addition, BNP is offering 'Election Campaign Management' training to the final candidates from Wednesday. This training workshop will end on Saturday. Later, district-based master training activities will begin. They will provide all of them with central training. ARAFAT BILLAH KHAN, THE FORMER UNION LEADER OF THE STUDENT GROUP ASSOCIATED WITH THE EVENT, SAID WHAT WILL THE RICE SEED CANDIDATE SAY IN THE CAMPAIGN? What will be mentioned in the campaign? What narrative can opposition candidates possibly make? Workshops will be organized on what counter narratives can be.
Meanwhile, the acting chairman of the BNP, Tarek Rahman, exchanged views with the party candidates for the second day on Thursday. About 100 candidates took part in the exchange meeting. Tarek Rahman joins the meeting virtually from London. At the exchange meeting, they were given various guidelines on compliance with the election code of conduct and the campaign strategy of the vote. In particular, family cards, farmer cards, sports, improving the social status and quality of life of Khatib-Imam-Muajjins, protection of river-canals and the environment, health sector, education and efficient manpower, and a corruption-free Bangladesh—these eight things plan The plot has been picked up. The responsible leaders also outlined to the candidates how to campaign for the vote, including social media. It was reported that on the second day, the BNP held an exchange meeting with 110 MP candidates from Barishal, Mymensingh and Dhaka divisions on Thursday. The party will meet with 90 candidates from Faridpur, Sylhet, Kumilla and Chittagong on Saturday.
Nazrul Islam Manju, former organisational editor of the BNP and candidate for the Khulna-2 seat, said the exchange meeting discussed the future plans of the BNP and the promotion of the party. Various suggestions were made on how to use the media, including social media, in the election campaign, to stop the propaganda against the BNP on social media, especially on the conduct of a candidate. The exchange meeting was attended by BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, Standing Committee Member Iqbal Hasan Mahmoud, Advisor to the Chairperson Ismail Jabihullah and Senior Joint Secretary General RUHUL KABIR RIJVI. Under the direction of BNP's Central Training Editor Nawaz Halima and Executive Committee Member Abdus Sattar Patowari, Convener of BNP Media Cell, Moodood Hossain Almagh, delivered an instructive speech on various issues at the meeting Jiyauddin Haider, a member of the Chairperson's Advisory Council, Mahdi Amin, an adviser to the acting chairman, and Rehan Assad, a former UN official.

Candidates have started collecting nominations to contest various seats in Chittagong in the 13th National Assembly elections. The BNP, 18 candidates from various political parties, including Islamists in Jamaat, received nominations on Thursday. Among them, three BNP leaders have collected nominations for the Chattogram-15 (Satkaniya-Lohagara) seat. Najmul Mustafa Amin Chattogram-15 (Satkaniya-Lohagara), a member of the Southern District BNP, received nominations. He was nominated by the BNP. Jamal Hossain and Mojibur Rahman, joint conveners of Chittagong South District BNP, also received nominations from the same seat. Mujibur Rahman's followers blocked the Chattogram-Cox Bazar highway for two days on December 4 and 6. They demanded that Mujibur Rahman should be replaced by Nazmul Mustafa Amin. As a result, local residents believe that there has been a public uproar within the BNP surrounding the seat. Because he went beyond party decisions and got two more nominations.
According to the Office of the Returning Officer, BNP Central Executive Committee member Hummam Qader Chowdhury Chowdhury Chattogram-7 (Rangunia), former convener of BNP in the Southern District, Abu Sufian Chhatt From Chattogram-9 (Kotwali), former joint convener of Chattogram North District BNP Sarwar Alamgir from Chattogram-2 (Fatikkhari), Senior Joint Convener of South District BNP Mohammad Et From Namul Haq Chattogram-12 (Patia), except South District BNP Joint Caller Mishkatul Islam Chattogram-16 (Banshkhali), Kazi Mohammad Salauddin Chattogram-4 (Sitakun) (d) took the nomination papers from the seat. Meanwhile, among the Islamic candidates in Jamayat are Mohammad Faridul Alam in the Chattogram-12 (Patia) seat, Islamic Secretary Mohammad Abad from Chattogram-5 (Hathhazari) in the Hathhazari Upzilla Jamayat. From Chattogram-8 (Boalkhali-Chandgaon) to Boalkhali Jamaya, Islami's Naibe Amir Md. Abu Nash received his nomination.
Other candidates include Omar Farooq, son of LDP President Colonel Ali Ahmad from Chattogram-14 (Chandanaish), Mohammad Zulfikar Ali of Bangladesh from Chattogram-2 (Fatikkari). MOHAMMED IMAM UDDIN OF BANGLADESH HAS TAKEN THE NOMINATION FROM TATGRAM-5 (HATHAZARI). On the other hand, Milan Kanti Sharma from Chattogram-9, Zinnat Aktar from Chattogram-2, Mohammad Mizanul Haq Chowdhury from Chattogram-14 are among the nominees.
There are a total of 16 parliamentary seats in Chittagong. This time, the returning officer will be performed by the Divisional Commissioner, Md. Jiauddin, district administrator Mohammad Jahidul Islam Mīnwa and regional election officer Belayet Hossain Chowdhury. Outside of this, Additional District Administrator (LA) Md. Kamruzzaman, Upzilla Executive Officer (UNO) and Thana Election Officers will serve as Assistant Returning Officers. Nominations can be collected from their offices. According to the Election Commission's schedule, the national parliament elections and referendums will be held on February 12. The deadline for submission of nominations is December 29. Nominations will be selected from December 30 to January 4.

The BNP has announced candidates for 237 seats in the upcoming national parliament elections. The party has released a list of who is getting the BNP nomination for which seat. There are 300 seats in the National Assembly. In some of these seats, candidates have not been announced and some seats have been reserved for coalition partners by the BNP. The party's general secretary Mirza Fakhrul Islam Almagir announced the names of the candidates at a news conference at the BNP chairperson's political office in the capital Gulshan on Monday afternoon.
Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir said that BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia Feni—01, Bogura—07 and Dinajpur—03 are candidates. And the acting chairman of the BNP, Tarek Rahman, will be elected to the Bogura-6 seat. Members of the standing committee, the highest policy-making forum of the BNP, met in an emergency meeting at 12:30pm before the candidate announcement. The nearly five-hour meeting was chaired virtually from London by the acting chairman of the BNP, Tarek Rahman. The meeting discussed the final party candidates in the upcoming national parliament elections and what to do in the ongoing political situation.
National parliamentary elections are scheduled to be held in the first half of February. Earlier, the election schedule would be announced in early December, the Election Commission said. Thirteenth National Assembly Election: List of potential BNP candidates for 237 seats:Panchgar-1: Mohammad Naushad Zamir, Panchgar-2: Farhad Hossain Azad, Thakurgaon—1: Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, Thakurgaon-2: (Candidates not announced), Thakurgaon-3: Md. Zahidur Rahman Zahid, Dinajpur-1: Md. Manjurul Islam, Dinajpur-2: Md. Sadiq Riaz, Dinajpur-3: Begum Khaleda Jia, Dinajpur-4: Mo. Akhtarujaman Mia, Dinajpur-5: (Candidate not announced), Dinajpur-6: A Z M Zahid Hosen, Nilfamari-1: (Candidate not announced), Nilfamari-2: AH Md. Saifullah Rubel, Nilfamari—3: (Candidate not declared), Nilfamari—4: Md. Government of Abdul Gafur, Lalmonirhat-1: Md. Hasan Rajiv Chief, Lalmanirhat-2: (Candidate not announced), Lalmanirhat-3: Asdul Habib Dulu.
Rangpur-1: Md. Mukarram Hossain Sujan, Rangpur-2: Mohammad Ali Sarkar, Rangpur-3: Md. Samsuzzaman Samu, Rangpur-4: Mohammad Amdadul Haq Bharsa, Rangpur-5: Md. Golam Rabbani, Rangpur-6: Md. Saiful Islam, Kurigram-1: Saiful Islam Rana, Kurigram-2: Md. Sohel Hossain Kayakobad, Kurigram-3: Tajvir ul Islam, Kurigram-4: Md. Azizur Rahman, Gaibandha-1: Khandkar Jiaul Islam Mohammad Ali, Gaibandha-2: Md. Anisujaman Khan Babu, Gaibandha-3: Syed Moinul Hasan Sadiq, Gaibandha-4: Mohammad Shameem Qaisar, Gaibandha-5: Md. Farooq Alam Sarkar, Jaipurhat-1: Md. Masood Rana Chief, Jaipurhat-2: Abdul Bari.
Bagura-1: Qazi Rafikul Islam, Bagura-2: (Candidates not announced), Bagura-3: Abdul Muhit Talukdar, Bagura-4: Md. MOSHARF HOSEN, BAGURA-5: GOLAM MOHAMMAD SIRAJ, BAGUA-6: TAREK RAHMAN, BAGUA-7: BEGUM KHALEDA JIA, CHAMPAINBABGANJ-1: MO. Sajahan Mian, ChapainBabganj-2: Md. Aminul Islam, Chapainbabganj-3: Md. Harunar Rashid, Nogan-1: Md. Mostafizur Rahman, Nogaon- 2: Md. Samsujoha Khan, Nogan-3:Mo. FAZLE HUDA BABUL, NAOGAN-4: IKRAMUL BARI TIPU, NOGAON-5: (CANDIDATE NOT ANNOUNCED), NOGAAN-6: SHEIKH MMO. Rezaul Islam, Rajshahi-1: Md. Sharif Uddin, Rajshahi-2: Md. Mizanur Rahman Minu, Rajshahi-3: Mohammad Shafikul Hawk Milan, Rajshahi-4: DM D Jiaur Rahman, Rajshahi-5: Nazrul Islam, Rajshahi-6: Abu
Saeed Chand, NATO-1: Farjana Sharmin, NATOR-2: Ruhul Kuddus Talukdar Dulu, NATOR-3: (Candidate not announced), NATOR-4: Mo. Abdul Aziz.
SIRAJGANJ- 1: (CANDIDATE NOT ANNOUNCED), SIRAJGANJ-2: IQBAL HASSAN MAHMUD TUKU, SIRAJGANJ-3: VP AYANUL HAK, SIRAJGANJ-4: M AKBAR ALI, SIRAJGANJ-5: MO. AMIRUL ISLAM KHAN, SIRAJGANJ — 6: MA MUHIT, PABNA-1: (CANDIDATE NOT ANNOUNCED), PABNA-2: AK M SELIM REZA HABIB, PABNA-3: MO. Hasan Zafir Tuhin, Pabna-4: Habibur Rahman Habib, Pabna-5: Md. Shamsur Rahman Shimul Biswas, Meherpur-1: Masud Arun, Meherpur-2: Md. Amjad Hossain, Kushtia-1: Reza Ahmed, Kushtia-2: Ragheb Rauf Choudhury, Kushtia-3: Mo. Zakir Hossain Sarkar, Kushtia-4: Syed Mehdi Ahmed Rumi, Chuadanga-1: Md. Sharifuzzaman, Chuadanga-2:Mahmoud Hasan Khan, Jhinaidah-1: (Candidate not announced), Jhinaidah-2: (Candidate not announced), Jhinaidah-3: Mohammad Mehdi Hassan, Jhanaidah-3: Ninaidah—4: (Candidates not announced), Jashore-1: Md. Mofikul Hassan Satisfaction, Jashore-2: Moses. Sabira Sultana, Jashore—3: Undeniable Islam Amit, Jashore-4: TS Ayyub, Jashore-5: (Candidate not announced), Jashore-6: Kazi Raunkul Islam.
Magura-1: Md. Manoir Hossain, Magura-2: Nitai Roy Chowdhury, Narail-1: Vishwas Jahangir Alam, Narail-2: (Candidate not announced), Bagerhat-1: (Candidate not announced), Bagerhat-2: (Candidate not announced) Bagerhat-3: (Candidate not declared), Khulna-1: (Candidate not declared), Khulna-2: Nazrul Islam Manju, Khulna-3: Rakibul Islam Bakul, Khulna-4: A Jizul Bari Helal, Khulna-5: Mohammad Ali Asgar, Khulna-6: Manirul Hasan Bappi, Satkshira-1: Md. Habibul Islam Habib, Satkshira-2: Abdur Rauf, Satkshira-3: Qazi Alauddin, Satkhira-4: Md. Moniruzzaman, Barguna-1: Md. Nazrul Islam Molla, Barguna-2: Nurul Islam Money, Patuakhali-1: Altaf Hossain Choudhury, Patukhali-2: (Candidate not announced), Patuakhali-3: (Candidate declared) Patukhali-4: A.B.M. Mosharraf Hossain, Vola-1: Golam Nabi Alamgir, Vola-2: Mo. Hafiz Ibrahim, Vola-3: Major (Ab.) Hafiz Uddin Ahmed Virvikram, Bhola-4: Md. Nirul Islam is not.
Barishal-1: Zaheer Uddin Swapan, Barishal-2: Sardar Sarfuddin Ahmed Santu, Barishal-3: (Candidate not announced), Barishal-4: Mo. Rajiv Ahsan, Barishal-5: Md. Mojibar Rahman Sarwar, Barishal-6: Abul Hossain Khan, Jhalkatti-1: (Candidate not announced), Jhalkatti-2: Sultan of Israel Elaine Bhuttu, Pirozpur-1: (Candidate not announced), P Rojpur-2: Ahmed Sohel Manzur, Pirozpur-3: Md. Ruhul Amin Dulal, Tangail-1: Faqir Mahboob Anam Swapan, Tangail-2: Abdus Salam Pintu, Tangail-3: SM Obaidul Haq Nasir, Tangail-4: Mo. Lutfar Rahman Metin, Tangail-5: (Candidate not announced), Tangail-6: Md. Rabiul Awwal Lablu, Tangail-7: Abul Kalam Azad Siddiqui, Tangail-8: Ahmed Azam Khan, Jamalpur-1: M Rashidujaman Millat, Jamalpur-2: AE Sultan Mahmud Babu, Jamalpur R-3: Md. Mustafizur Rahman Babul, Jamalpur-4: Md. Faridul Kabir Talukdar Shamim, Jamalpur-5: Shah Md. Wares Ali Mamun, Sherpur-1: Sansila Jebrin, Sherpur-2: Mohammad Fahim Chowdhury, Sherpur-3: Mo. Mahmudul Hawk Rubel.
Mymensingh-1: Syed Emran Saleh, Mymensingh-2: Motaher Hossain Talukdar, Mymensingh-3: M Iqbal Hossein, Mymensingh-4: (Suspended), Mymensingh-5: Mohammad Zakir Hossain, Mymensingh- 6: Md. Akhtarul Alam, Mymensingh — 7:Mo. Mahbubur Rahman, Mymensingh-8:Lutfullahel Mazed, Mymensingh-9:Yasser Khan
Chowdhury, Mymensingh-10: (candidate not announced), Mymensingh-11: Fakar Uddin Ahmed, Netrakona-1: Kaysar Kamal, Netrakona-2: Mo. ANWARUL HAK, NETRAKONA-3:RAFIKUL ISLAM HILALI, NETRAKONA-4: MO. Lutfuzzaman Babar, Netrakona-5: Md. Abu Taher Talukdar, Kishorganj-1: (Candidate not announced), Kishorganj-2: Md. Jalal Uddin, Kishorganj-3: Osman Faruk, Kishorganj-4:Mo. Fazlur Rahman, Kishorganj-5: (Candidate not announced), Kishorganj-6: Md. Shariful Alam, Manikganj-1: (Candidate not announced), Manikganj-2: Moinul Islam Khan, Manikganj-3: Afroza Khan Rita, Munsiganj-1: Sheikh Md. Abdullah, Munsiganj-2:Mizanur Rahman Sinha, Munsiganj-3: (Candidates not announced)
Dhaka-1: Khandkar Abu Ashfaq, Dhaka-2: Aman Ullah Aman, Dhaka-3: Gayeshwar Chandra Roy, Dhaka-4: Tanveer Ahmed Robin, Dhaka-5: Nabi Ullah Nabi, Dhaka-6: Ishrak Hoek Sen, Dhaka-7: (Candidates not announced), Dhaka-8: Mirza Abbas Uddin Ahmed, Dhaka-9: (Candidates not announced), Dhaka-10: (Candidates not announced), Dhaka-11: M A Kaiya Room, Dhaka-12: Saiful Alam Neerab, Dhaka-13: (Candidate not announced), Dhaka-14: Sanjida Islam Tuli, Dhaka-15: Mo. Shafikul Islam Khan, Dhaka-16: Aminul Haq, Dhaka-17: (Candidate not announced), Dhaka-18: (Candidate not announced), Dhaka-19: Devan Mo. Salauddin, Dhaka—20: (Candidates not announced), Gazipur-1: (Candidates not announced), Gazipur-2: M Manjurul Karim Roni, Gazipur-3: SM Rafikul Islam Bachu, Gazipur-4: Shajipur-4: Ryazul Hannan, Gazipur-5: Fazlul Haq Milan, Gazipur-6: (Candidate not announced), Narsingdi-1: Khairul Kavir Khokan, Narsingdi-2: Abdul Moeen Khan, Narsingdi-3: (Prs. Candidates not announced), Narsingdi-4: Sardar Md. Sakhawat Hossain, Narsingdi-5: Md. Ashraf Uddin Bakul.
Narayanganj-1: Mostafizur Rahman Bhuya Deepu, Narayanganj-2: Nazrul Islam Azad, Narayanganj-3: Md. Azharul Islam Mannan, Narayanganj—4: (Candidates not announced), Narayanganj-5: Md. Masuduzzaman, Rajbari-1: Ali Nawaz Mahmood Khayyam, Rajbari-2: (Candidate not declared), Faridpur-1: (Candidate not declared), Faridpur-2: Shama Obayed Islam, Faf Ridpur-3: Nayab Yusuf Ahmed, Faridpur-4: Shahid Islam Babul, Gopalganj-1:Mo. Selimuzzaman Molya, Gopalganj—2:KM Babar Ali, Gopalganj—3:S M Jilani, Madaripur-1: Kamal Zaman Molla, Madaripur-2: (Candidate not announced), Madaripur-3: Anipur-2 Sur Rahman, Shariatpur-1: Said Ahmed Aslam, Shariatpur-2: Mo. Shafikul Rahman Kiran, Shariatpur—3:Mian Nuruddin Ahmed Apu, Sunamganj-1: Anisul Haq, Sunamganj-2: (Candidate not announced), Sunamganj-3:Mohammad Kaysar Ahmed, Sunamganj-4: (Candidates not announced), Sunamganj-5: Kalim Uddin Milan.
Sylhet-1: Khandkar Abdul Moktadir Choudhury, Sylhet-2: Delete. Tahsina Rushdir, Sylhet-3: Mohammad Abdul Malik, Sylhet-4: (candidate not declared), Sylhet-5: (candidate not declared), Sylhet-6: Emran Ahmed Chowdhury, Moulvibazar-11: Nasir Uddin Ahmed Methu, Maulvibazar-2:Sowkat Hossain Saku, Maulvibazar-3:Nasser Rahman, Maulvibazar-4:Mo. Mojibar Rahman Chowdhury, Habiganj-1: (Candidate not announced), Habiganj-2: Abu Mansur Sakhawat Hasan Jeevan, Habiganj-3:Mo. GK Gauss, Habiganj-4: SM Faisal, Brahmanbaria-1:M A Hannan, Brahmanbaria-2: (Candidates not announced), Brahmanbariya—3:Mo. Khaled Hossain Mahboob, Brahmanbaria-4:Mushfikur Rahman, Brahmanbaria-5:Mo. Abdul Mannan, Brahmanbaria-6: (Candidate not announced), Kumilla-1:Khandkar Mosharraf Hossain, Kumilla-2: (Pr
Candidates not announced), Kumilla—3:Kazi Shah Mofazzal Hossain Kayakobad, Kumilla-4:Manjurul Ahsan Munsi, Kumilla-5:Mo. Jassim Uddin, Kumilla-6:Mo. Manirul Hak Chowdhury, Kumilla-7: (Candidate not announced), Kumilla-8:Zakariya Taher, Kumilla-9:Mo. Abul Kalam, Kumilla-10:Mo. Abdul Gafur Bhuya, Kumilla- 11:Mo. Kamrul Huda.
Chandpur-1: An N Ehsanul Haq Milan, Chandpur-2: Mo. Jalal Uddin, Chandpur-3: Sheikh Farid Ahmed, Chandpur-4: Mo. Harunur Rashid, Chandpur-5: Mo. Mominul Haq, Feni-1: Begum Khaleda Zia, Feni-2: Jaynal Abedeen, Feni-3: Abdul Awwal Mintu, Noakhali-1: AM Mahboob Uddin, Noakhali-2: Jaynal Abedeen Farooq, Noakhali Lee-3:Mo. Barkat Ullah Bulu, Noakhali-4: Mo. Shahjahan, Noakhali-5: Mohammad Fakhrul Islam, Noakhali-6: Mohammad Mahboob Rahman Shameem, Lakshmipur-1: (Candidate not announced), Lakshmipur-2: Mo. Abul Khayer Bhuya, Lakshmipur-3:Mo. Shahid Uddin Chowdhury Annie, Lakshmipur-4: (Candidate not announced)
Chattogram-1:Nurul Amin, Chattogram-2:Sarwar Alamgir, Chattogram-3: (Candidates not announced), Chattogram-4:Kazi Salauddin, Chattogram-5:Mir Mohammad Helal Uddin, Chattogram-6: (Candidates not announced), Chattogram-7: Hummam Kader Chowdhury, Chattogram-8:Ershad Ullah, Chattogram-9: (Candidates not announced), Chattogram-10: Amir Khasru Mahmud Chowdhury, Chattogram-11: (Candidate not announced), Chattogram-12:Mohammad Enamul Haq, Chattogram-13: Sarwar Jamal Nizam, Chattogram-14: (Prayer Not announced), Chattogram-15: (Candidates not announced), Chattogram-16: Mishkatul Islam Choudhury Pappa, Cox Bazar-1:Salahuddin Ahmed, Cox Bazar-2 :( Candidates not announced), Cox Bazar-3: Lutfur Rahman Kajal, Cox Bazar-4: Shahjahan Chowdhury, Khagrachari:Abdul Wadud Bhuya, Rangamati:Deepen Dewan, Bandarban:Saching PROF.

The verse of a poem became quite popular during the Awami League government. Asad Choudhury's line was: 'What you were saying is Bangladesh? ' The poem was intended for seventy martyrs. The Awami League government made no promises to the martyrs. They insisted on the spirit of the liberation war, but did the opposite. He even ate gold medals given to foreign friends who helped in the liberation war. The Awami League is no longer in power. Nor in politics. But the state and administration maintain the “Awami Clause” almost everywhere. Two of the advisers fired from their jobs have been accused of corruption against PS and APS. A centrist leader of the National Citizens' Party (NCP) has also been granted temporary exemption on corruption charges. There is a lot of controversy about who has more authority and journalism in the public administration. After a recent meeting with two US assistant foreign ministers, NCP convener Nahid Islam said that in many parts of Bangladesh the administration is now working on behalf of the BNP. Therefore, it is not possible to elect under such an administration. The BNP's counter-accusations are the most fair of those who oppose discrimination with the administration.
Read moreWhat Graffiti Wants Were Wrong 07 May 2025
At a memorial meeting of former Attorney General A J Mohammed Ali on Thursday, Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir said 90 percent of the secretariat is to blame for fascism. It is through them that the country is now running. The ruling Awami League held everything for 15 years. Trial from professional organizations. From the educational institution to the field level administration. Government resources from public transport. Have those seats been left empty after the Awami League leaders/workers fled? Not at all. A few days ago, some lawyers from a southern district town came to express their grief. For the Awami League to remain in power, they were insulted in various ways for being BNP-Jamayat people. After the change of power, BNP-backed lawyers are controlling everything and harassing opponents as the fault of the dictatorship. Many people are not allowed to sit in the chamber. Many of the leaders of the Bar Association are fugitives. In this situation, the General Counsel demanded an election. But lawyers supporting the BNP are not willing to choose. They want a quick national election. But not a professional organization. Because they have already become unpopular there.
It is not clear when the election will take place. The government hangs the date like a pendulum — next December, not next June. Even if the deadline is in June, there is still time, like 13 months. There is also the question of what the government has reformed. In matters that do not involve elections and the Constitution, there is no obstacle to reform. Still, no visible initiatives can be noticed. So will the organization of all government initiatives be limited to the formation and recommendations of the commission?
Previously, BNP's rival was the Awami League. Now there is no one to compete in their absence. The chief adviser called for a second round of talks with political parties. But most political parties could not agree on fundamental reforms in the first round of talks. It will be possible in the near future, and there is little hope. On May 2, NCP leaders rallied and declared that there would be no elections in the country before the completion of the trial and reform of the Awami League. They have continued their movement to demand a ban on the Awami League. Thursdays 
The BNP general secretary said, “Reform is an ongoing process. It can take 5 or 10 years. Isn't there going to be a 10-year election?” The BNP leader also criticised the list of new reforms every day.
Read moreThe concern is about division among themselves09 May 2025
Regarding the government's Rakhine policy, Mirza Fakhrul said, “Do not do anything that goes against the nation. He's doing a lot of work that the nation doesn't know. No one was spoken to for him. Pass the passage, talk to someone. We are not obstacles, we will come forward if necessary. If some scholars sit down and think they can impose a decision, it's never going to be possible. ' BNP alleges that the government is unable to solve the country's existing problems. There are no hard measures to be taken on the economic front either. The law and order situation is getting out of control. The India-Pakistan war is hitting our economy as well. On the other hand, India is pushing and pushing on the border. It is not clear when the election will take place. The government hangs the date like a pendulum — next December, not next June. Even if the deadline is in June, there is still time, like 13 months. There is also the question of what the government has reformed. In matters that do not involve elections and the Constitution, there is no obstacle to reform. Still, no visible initiatives can be noticed. So will the organization of all government initiatives be limited to the formation and recommendations of the commission?
With the elections ahead, it is likely that the BNP has embarked on a programme of gathering more than a million members. The membership collection will run from May 15 to July 15. “Our thinking is the fresh people of society (new to politics) —retired people; who can be teachers, government officials and bankers, NGO officials, NGO officials,” the party's senior joint general secretary, Ruhul Kabir Rizvi, told a news conference on Thursday. It can be farmers, or laborers — whether they believe in our ideals or not.” Asked whether someone could come from another party or from the Awami League, Ruhul Kabir Rizvi said, “Suppose someone has not done politics for a long time or maybe once did the Awami League, but the rule of the Awami League, the barbarians. He didn't like the activities, the looting, the money laundering, the Awami left the league; why can't they come? ' While the video of Rizvi Saheb's speech was widely circulated and criticised, an explanation was also given on behalf of the party. In the words of the poet Ruhul Rizvi, the BNP will be made up of absolutely fresh people, those who are reputed to be gentlemen in society.
In this turbulent political environment, the BNP has embarked on a programme to find a million honest people. It's a very good move. But the task is not easy. Because, the question is whether Rizvi Saheb wants people with a clean image, honest people, even though they are not rare in society, will they come into politics or not. Most of the honest people they want to pull into the party want to avoid politics. Many thought that after the twenty-fourth coup there would be a qualitative change in politics. Good people will join the team. But there are no signs of a qualitative change in politics in the last nine months. Even the students who are talking about a new political settlement are not able to show a new settlement. Rather, he is walking the path of the elderly. The second question is more important. To do the work that the occupiers, extortionists who were in the group before finding the honest man of the BNP
Are they ready or not? ●Sohrab Hassan Joint Editor & Poet of First Light [email protected] (opinion is author's own)

Bangladesh is so politically divided that asking any two citizens about the same issue will give a completely different answer. If you ask, 'How is the country going? ' Someone will answer, “The country is going very well. There has never been such a free democracy in the country. All the indicators of the economy are moving steadily forward.” Others will answer, “There is no such thing as democracy in the country. Corruption and trafficking have ended the economy. If this government is in power for a while, Bangladesh will become Sri Lanka.” A recent poll by the Washington-based International Republican Institute (IRI) also revealed conflicting data. Sixty-three percent of the people in the country support the opposition. Again, 70 per cent of people said Sheikh Hasina did well as head of government.
Read moreVibrant BNP, Marmukhi Police, Lunch and PM's Fruit Sending30 Jul 2023
It is said that Bangladesh's politics is always individual or leader-centric. The parties also run under the direction of the top leader. In that sense, the opposition BNP has not been a 'leader' for five and a half years. The party's chief Khaleda Zia has been in prison for corruption cases (although she is currently in her home under government executive orders) since February 2018. Tarek Rahman, who was made acting chairman of the party in his absence, has been abroad since September 2008. He has also been convicted in several cases. Yet the BNP, which has been out of power for nearly 17 years, has kept warm thanks to the party's ordinary leaders and workers. The ridicule that Awami League leaders used to ridicule for so long for not being able to make the BNP movement has now returned to them. In the past, anti-government movement-struggle meant upheaval, blockade and siege. Along with the Awami League, the BNP had been following the trend until 2015.
If the BNP thinks the United States will remove the Awami League from power and bring them to power through pressure or sanctions, I think it is unrealistic. Even before the election, U.S. visa policy is unlikely to take effect. The United States always talks about democracy, fair elections and human rights. But the truth behind or in parallel with these words is their geopolitical interests.
It should be noted here that in recent times the BNP leadership has brought some innovation to the political agenda. Their peaceful program has extended beyond the city to the Union and has received a response from the people. The situation has been such that whenever the BNP takes the programme, the Awami League is also on the field with almost the same programme that day. The arguments put forward by the Awami League leaders in favour of this are also ridiculous. Are the government's law-enforcement forces so weak that they cannot cope with the alleged terrorism-anarchy of the BNP-Jamaat? If the BNP delivers a tough programme such as a siege in the future, will the Awami League follow suit?
At the moment, the Awami League and the BNP are fighting over the electoral system. We have such a great wise leader, but he has not been able to decide what the election will be like in 52 years. Staying in the opposition, he said, there is no such good system as a caretaker government. Some even talked about exporting the system abroad. Back in power, the leaders said the caretaker system could not be named; it was overturned by the Supreme Court. But the court said in a brief order that Parliament wanted
There can be two elections in this system. Leaders also interpret the Constitution according to their own convenience. When the BNP government raised the age of judges by the Fourth Amendment, the Awami League opposed it. We think that opposition was justified. Now the Awami League gives the High Court a nod to the Fifteenth Amendment, but says nothing about the High Court's ruling on the repeal of the Sixth Amendment.
Read moreWhat opportunities does the Awami League create for BNP31 Jul 2023
Despite government repression and government party counter-programs, turnout has increased in recent times over the BNP's programs. This is seen by the party leaders as a success of the movement. But can they take this success to the next level? In the BNP's language, the final verdict means the resignation of the government before the elections and the handover of power to a non-partisan government. The election is just five months away. According to the Election Commission, the National Assembly elections will be announced in late October or early November. Are they prepared to do what BNP leaders call Rajpath Faisala? Democratic rights in the country are shrinking, trafficking and corruption have increased. There is no doubt that ordinary people are angry with the government under pressure on commodity prices. But how much of that anger can be exploited by the opposition?
There is also the question of the way in which people's support has been obtained in the peace program, whether it will be found in the final verdict. People saw the BNP's position program at the entrance to Dhaka on July 29 as a clash between the two sides. They themselves did not want to be a party directly. There have always been two clauses in the BNP about the movement's agenda. While most of the party's leaders agreed to rally in Sohrawardi Park before December 10 last year as proposed by the government, it did not do so for the hardliners. It was then that the hardliners announced their descent into Samukhsamer against the government.
This time, too, a BNP leader thinks that giving two or four hot programs will create a situation of mass coup. They argue that in the way the United States is putting pressure on the government, they have no choice but to resign. I asked several of the leaders of the party what the BNP will earn in one go. In response, they said, “Don't look what's going on. In doing so, they signalled a new US ban. In Bangladesh, there is no precedent that any government has easily resigned in any movement in the past. Hussein Muhammad Ershad was forced to resign in the 1990s as he went against all political and social forces, starting in the administration. Despite opposition from all parties including Awami League, Left, National Party, Jamaat Islamist in 1996, Khaleda Zia was elected unilaterally on February 15. He was later forced to resign after the administration withdrew its support. The Mahajot's' loggi-book 'movement led by the Awami League in 2006 also failed to prevent the caretaker government of Yazuddin Ahmed from the January 22 elections. The election was later cancelled due to one or eleven substitutions.
If the BNP thinks the United States will remove the Awami League from power and bring them to power through pressure or sanctions, I think it is unrealistic. Even before the election, U.S. visa policy is unlikely to take effect. The United States is always committed to democracy, fair elections and human rights
E speaks. But the truth behind or in parallel with these words is their geopolitical interests. If the BNP makes a one-sided move by relying on foreign power, it would be wrong. They have to rely on the people of the country. ●Sohrab Hassan, Joint Editor and Poet of First Light — Mail: [email protected]